---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "The TypeScript Prelim"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-09-05
published: true
labels:
  - TypeScript
  - Learning
---

Walking into my first class of ICS 314, I was anticipating a rigorous course just through the words of peers and the name itself, Software Engineering. That expectation was soon met upon learning that we needed to pick up a new language within the next week. I felt overwhelmed as this wave of stress came crashing down on me, leaving me to panic about the following days to come. It was only the first week and I was slapped across the face with about 140 exercises revolving around JavaScript/TypeScript. 

It felt intimidating to open up the tab to reveal the exercises. Upon clicking on that first exercise, I had to remind myself that I am more than capable of learning a new language. It was just a matter of learning a new syntax. I did it before with Python and C, so why would I not be able to replicate the same for Javascript and TypeScript. With confidence in myself, I was able to push through and complete problem by problem, taking one step at a time. As of right now, I have not run into any problems with TypeScript, aside from just forgetting proper syntax here and there. I would actually say TypeScript helps lower human error with its debugging capabilities. With more to come throughout the semester, I hope TypeScript remains the good guy through it all.

Now about athletic software engineering. While stressful, I feel it is a great way to learn and practice coding. The idea of putting students into situations that may replicate the same stress levels of a coding interview or an actual software engineering job seems very beneficial. It is a unique learning experience I have not received before and can only hope it will assist my learning in the way I think it will. With the completion of my first in class practice WOD, I actually enjoyed it. Yes it was stressful, but that is the excitement of it. I understand that future WODs will only get more challenging and failure is bound to arrive, but for now I have to stay optimistic and keep pushing in the right direction.
